.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH dispman 1  "dispman 0.2.0" 
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH NAME
dispman \- Control monitor settings via DDC/CI
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdispman\fR [\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-verbose\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR] <\fIsubcommands\fR>
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH DESCRIPTION
dispman reads and changes monitor settings over the DDC/CI protocol. It can switch input sources, adjust brightness and contrast, change volume, query a monitor\*(Aqs capabilities string, and save or restore groups of settings as named profiles.
.PP
Monitors are addressed by a zero\-based index assigned at enumeration time. If no display is given, commands operate on display 0.
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable verbose output
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
dispman\-detect(1)
Detect available displays
.TP
dispman\-capabilities(1)
Get capabilities of a display
.TP
dispman\-get(1)
Get a VCP feature value
.TP
dispman\-set(1)
Set a VCP feature value
.TP
dispman\-profile(1)
Manage profiles
.TP
dispman\-inspect(1)
Inspect all settings for a display
.TP
dispman\-help(1)
Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
.SH FEATURE NAMES
The following case-insensitive names are accepted anywhere a
.I FEATURE
argument is expected:
.TP 14
.B brightness
VCP 0x10 \(em luminance, 0\-100.
.TP
.B contrast
VCP 0x12 \(em contrast, 0\-100.
.TP
.B input
VCP 0x60 \(em input source. Values are vendor-specific.
.TP
.B volume
VCP 0x62 \(em audio volume, 0\-100.
.TP
.B power
VCP 0xD6 \(em power mode. Common values: 1 = on, 4 = standby.
.PP
Any other VCP code may be supplied as a hex literal
.RB ( 0xNN )
or decimal integer in the range 0\-255.
.SH FILES
.TP
Windows
.I %APPDATA%\\dispman\\dispman\\config.toml
.TP
macOS
.I ~/Library/Application Support/com.dispman.dispman/config.toml
.PP
The config file is managed by
.B dispman profile
subcommands and should not normally be edited by hand.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
List all monitors as JSON:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
dispman detect \-\-json
.fi
.RE
.PP
Set the second monitor's input source to HDMI1 (code often 0x11):
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
dispman set input 0x11 \-\-display 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
Save the current settings of every monitor as a profile called
.IR work :
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
dispman profile save work
.fi
.RE
.PP
Restore that profile later:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
dispman profile load work
.fi
.RE
.PP
Dim the primary display and check the result:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
dispman set brightness 30
dispman get brightness
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The command completed successfully.
.TP
.B non-zero
An error occurred: no matching display, DDC/CI communication failure,
invalid feature name, or I/O error while reading or writing the profile
file.
.SH PLATFORM NOTES
.SS Windows
DDC/CI commands often require running the terminal as Administrator. The
monitor's OSD must also have DDC/CI enabled.
.SS macOS
No elevated privileges are required. On Apple Silicon, DDC/CI works over
USB\-C / DisplayPort Alt Mode; the built-in HDMI port on entry-level M1/M2
Macs is not supported by the underlying IOKit APIs.
.SS Linux
Not yet supported; a Linux backend backed by
.BR i2c-dev (4)
is planned.
.SH LIMITATIONS
Not all monitors implement DDC/CI correctly. Some USB-C docks and hubs strip
DDC traffic. Some displays require a short delay between commands; if a
.B set
appears to succeed but a following
.B get
returns the old value, retry after a brief pause.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ddcutil (1)
